#summary Documentation of the JWPL DataMachine

[JWPLDocumentation Back to overview page.]

= Usage =

   # Download the Wikipedia data from the [http://download.wikimedia.org/backup-index.html Wikipedia Download Site]
      * You need 3 files:
         * `[LANGCODE]wiki-[DATE]-pages-articles.xml.bz2` *OR* `[LANGCODE]wiki-[DATE]-pages-meta-current.xml.bz2` *OR* `[LANGCODE]wiki-[DATE]-pages-meta-history.xml.bz2`
         * `[LANGCODE]wiki-[DATE]-pagelinks.sql.gz`
         * `[LANGCODE]wiki-[DATE]-categorylinks.sql.gz`
      * Note: If you want to add discussion pages to the database, use `*pages-meta-(current|history).xml.bz2`, otherwise `*pages-articles.xml.bz2` suffices.
   # Run the transformation:
      * `java -jar JWPLDataMachine.jar [LANGUAGE] [MAIN_CATEGORY_NAME] [DISAMBIGUATION_CATEGORY_NAME] [SOURCE_DIRECTORY]` or `de.tudarmstadt.ukp.wikipedia.timemachine.domain.JWPLDataMachine [LANGUAGE] [MAIN_CATEGORY_NAME] [DISAMBIGUATION_CATEGORY_NAME] [SOURCE_DIRECTORY]`
         * LANGUAGE - a language string matching one in languages.txt in this release.
         * MAIN_CATEGORY_NAME - the name of the main (top) category of the Wikipedia category hierarchy
         * DISAMBIGUATION_CATEGORY_NAME - the name of the category that contains the disambiguation categories
         * SOURCE_DIRECTORY - the path to the directory containing the source files
      * *Attention:* For large dumps you need to increase the amount of memory assigned to the JVM using e.g. the "-Xmx2g" flag to assign 2GB of memory. For the recent English dump you will need around 4GB.
   # This should create a lot of new data files in a "output" subfolder of each input folder.
   # Import these data files into the database.
      * `mysqlimport -uUSER -p --local --default-character-set=utf8 {database_name} ```pwd```/*.txt`
   # When first connecting to a newly imported database, indexes are created. This takes some time (up to 30 minutes), depending on the server and the size of your Wikipedia. Subsequent connects won't have this delay.

== Example Transformation Commands ==

   * `java -jar JWPLDataMachine.jar english Categories Disambiguation_pages ~/enwiki/20081013`
   * `java -jar JWPLDataMachine.jar russian Всё Многозначные термины ~/ruwiki/20080420`
   * `java -jar JWPLDataMachine.jar spanish Índice de categorías Desambiguación ~/eswiki/20080416/`
   * `java -jar JWPLDataMachine.jar japanese 主要カテゴリ 曖昧さ回避 ~/jawiki/20080408/`
   * `java -jar JWPLDataMachine.jar german !Hauptkategorie Begriffsklärung ~/dewiki/20080422/`
   * `java -jar JWPLDataMachine.jar dutch Alles Doorverwijspagina ~/nlwiki/200810408`

Mind that the names of the main category or the category marking disambiguation pages may change over time. E.g. the English category for disambiguation pages was called "Disambiguation" for a long time, while now it is "Disambiguation_pages".

== Discussion Pages ==

Discussion pages can only be included if the source file contains these pages (see above).<br/>
All discussion pages will be marked with the prefix "Discussion:" in the page title (for all wikipedia language versions).